Software/tunerControllerGen1/README.md, before:

# Tuner controller - Generation 1
This is the firmare for the first generation control board. It has been developed using CPP and parts of the Arduino framework as Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL). 

Main features are:
* The firmware can be configured to control different kinds stepper motors at different speeds.
* The LCD position bar can be recalibrated to represent approximate capacitance graphically between min and max values.
* The LCD refresh rate can be reconfigured so it does not affect motor operation.
* Capacitor position is stored in EEPROM and therefore is persistent accross reboots.
* The firmare is easily portable to other architectures by changing the hw dependand class implementations (`Input.cpp`, `StepperMotor.cpp`, `UI.cpp` and `EepromAccess.h`).

Features to be implemented:
* Softlimits to stop rotation movement if going below MIN or beyond MAX positions.
* Calibration mode

Investigate:
* Stepper driver modification to ground ROSC pin?

## Operation

* Select speed by toggling the speed switch between SLOW or FAST.
* Move the capacitor in the desired direction by pushing CW or CCW. Progress bar and rotation count are incremented during movement and immediately upon pushbutton release.
* To clear EEPROM contents and set the position count to 0:
  1. Push reset button.
  2. Push both CW and CCW buttons at the same time.
  3. Release the reset button while keeping CW and CCW pushed.
  4. Release CW and CCW
  5. Board will boot and set the position to 0.

## Software structure
The control software is structured as depicted below. Comments after `##`

```bash
tunerControlGen1/
|── tunnerControllerGen1.ino                ## Initialization and entry point
├── HardwareConfig.h                        ## Configuration of hardware connections and motor timing
├── src/                                    
│   ├── lib                                 ## Third party library for faster LCD interfacing (no blocking)
|   |   ├── LiquidCrystalFast.h
|   |   └── LiquidCrystalFast.cpp
│   ├── modes                               ## Operational modes
|   |   ├── Mode.h
|   |   ├── ModeCalibrate.h
|   |   └── ModeOperate.h
│   ├── hwControl                           ## Hardware dependant class definitions and implementations for Arduino
|   |   ├── characterDefinitions.h
|   |   ├── UI.h
|   |   ├── UI.cpp
|   |   ├── StepperMotor.h
|   |   ├── StepperMotor.cpp
|   |   ├── EepromAccess.h
|   |   ├── Input.h
|   |   └── Input.cpp
|   └── 
└── 
```

## How to configure the firmware

The firmaware can be configured to drive motors at different speeds by altering the timing parameters in the table below. Additionally, care must be taken so the update of the LCD does not interfere the driver pulsing to a point in which it affects smooth movement. This can be controlled by modifying the number of pulses required to trigger a display update. 

| Parameter name        | Description   | Unit |
|-----------------------| --------------|------|
| DELAY_SLOW            | Pulse duration for slow operation. | microseconds | 
| DELAY_FAST            | Pulse duration for fast operation.   | microseconds | 
| OPERATION_DELAY_SLOW  | Delay between pulses in slow mode.| milliseconds |
| OPERATION_DELAY_FAST  | Delay between pulses in fast mode.| milliseconds | 
| DECIMATE              | Division factor applied to the steps count printed on the LCD | N/A - discrete count|
| MAX_COUNT             | Maximum number of counts for a full progress bar. | N/A - discrete count | 
| REFRESH_INTERVAL      | Number of pulses needed to trigger a LCD update. | N/A - discrete count  |

These parameters can be set in the file `HardwareConfig.h` by activating the relevant configuration via `#define CONF_#` or writing an additional one. Extract of HardwareConfig, with `CONF_1` as active configuration below.

```C
#define CONF_1

#ifdef CONF_1
/* Configuration for a stepper motor of 400 pulses per revolution, no planetary
 * reduction built-in.
 *
 *  This motor is intented to be used with a butterfly capacitor. This capacitor
 * type goes from minimum capacity to maximum with a 90 deg rotation = 1/4 of a
 * full rotation. Coupling to the capacitor is directly to the shaft (no
 * additional mechanical reduction).
 *
 *  Microswitches configured for maximum microstepping for minimum vibrations.
 *  switches 1 - LOW
 *           2 - LOW
 *           3 - LOW
 */
#define REFRESH_INTERVAL     50
#define DELAY_SLOW           300
#define DELAY_FAST           100
#define MAX_COUNT            1600
#define DECIMATE             1
#define OPERATION_DELAY_SLOW 50
#define OPERATION_DELAY_FAST 10
#endif // CONF_1
```

In addition to the parameters from above, microstepping in the stepper driver is recommended for smoother operation. This firmware interfaces the A4988 driver, that supports the following microstepping options:

| MS1 | MS2 | MS3 | Microstep |
|-----|-----|-----|-----------|
| L   | L   | L   | Full step |
| H   | L   | L   | 1/2  step |
| L   | H   | L   | 1/4 step  |
| H   | H   | L   | 1/8 step  |
| H   | H   | H   | 1/16 step |

Commit message:

Added description of softlimits parameters.

Software/tunerControllerGen1/README.md, after:

# Tuner controller - Generation 1
This is the firmare for the first generation control board. It has been developed using CPP and parts of the Arduino framework as Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL). 

Main features are:
* The firmware can be configured to control different kinds stepper motors at different speeds.
* The LCD position bar can be recalibrated to represent approximate capacitance graphically between min and max values.
* The LCD refresh rate can be reconfigured so it does not affect motor operation.
* Capacitor position is stored in EEPROM and therefore is persistent accross reboots.
* The firmare is easily portable to other architectures by changing the hw dependand class implementations (`Input.cpp`, `StepperMotor.cpp`, `UI.cpp` and `EepromAccess.h`).

Features to be implemented:
* Calibration mode
* Investigate: stepper driver modification to ground ROSC pin?

## Operation

* Select speed by toggling the speed switch between SLOW or FAST.
* Move the capacitor in the desired direction by pushing CW or CCW. Progress bar and rotation count are incremented during movement and immediately upon pushbutton release.
* To clear EEPROM contents and set the position count to 0:
  1. Push reset button.
  2. Push both CW and CCW buttons at the same time.
  3. Release the reset button while keeping CW and CCW pushed.
  4. Release CW and CCW
  5. Board will boot and set the position to 0.

## Software structure
The control software is structured as depicted below. Comments after `##`

```bash
tunerControlGen1/
|── tunnerControllerGen1.ino                ## Initialization and entry point
├── HardwareConfig.h                        ## Configuration of hardware connections and motor timing
├── src/                                    
│   ├── lib                                 ## Third party library for faster LCD interfacing (no blocking)
|   |   ├── LiquidCrystalFast.h
|   |   └── LiquidCrystalFast.cpp
│   ├── modes                               ## Operational modes
|   |   ├── Mode.h
|   |   ├── ModeCalibrate.h
|   |   └── ModeOperate.h
│   ├── hwControl                           ## Hardware dependant class definitions and implementations for Arduino
|   |   ├── characterDefinitions.h
|   |   ├── UI.h
|   |   ├── UI.cpp
|   |   ├── StepperMotor.h
|   |   ├── StepperMotor.cpp
|   |   ├── EepromAccess.h
|   |   ├── Input.h
|   |   └── Input.cpp
|   └── 
└── 
```

## How to configure the firmware

The firmaware can be configured to drive motors at different speeds by altering the timing parameters in the table below. Additionally, care must be taken so the update of the LCD does not interfere the driver pulsing to a point in which it affects smooth movement. This can be controlled by modifying the number of pulses required to trigger a display update. 

| Parameter name        | Description   | Unit |
|-----------------------| --------------|------|
| DELAY_SLOW            | Pulse duration for slow operation. | microseconds | 
| DELAY_FAST            | Pulse duration for fast operation.   | microseconds | 
| OPERATION_DELAY_SLOW  | Delay between pulses in slow mode.| milliseconds |
| OPERATION_DELAY_FAST  | Delay between pulses in fast mode.| milliseconds | 
| DECIMATE              | Division factor applied to the steps count printed on the LCD | N/A - discrete count|
| MAX_COUNT             | Maximum number of counts for a full progress bar. | steps | 
| REFRESH_INTERVAL      | Number of pulses needed to trigger a LCD update. | N/A - discrete count  |
| SOFT_LIMIT_MIN        | Minimum stepper count. Steps will not be sent below this limit (CW steps).| steps |
| SOFT_LIMIT_MIN        | Maximum stepper count. Steps will not be sent above this limit (CCW steps).| steps|

These parameters can be set in the file `HardwareConfig.h` by activating the relevant configuration via `#define CONF_#` or writing an additional one. Extract of HardwareConfig, with `CONF_1` as active configuration below.

```C
#define CONF_1

#ifdef CONF_1
/* Configuration for a stepper motor of 400 pulses per revolution, no planetary
 * reduction built-in.
 *
 *  This motor is intented to be used with a butterfly capacitor. This capacitor
 * type goes from minimum capacity to maximum with a 90 deg rotation = 1/4 of a
 * full rotation. Coupling to the capacitor is directly to the shaft (no
 * additional mechanical reduction).
 *
 *  Microswitches configured for maximum microstepping for minimum vibrations.
 *  switches 1 - LOW
 *           2 - LOW
 *           3 - LOW
 */
#define REFRESH_INTERVAL     50
#define DELAY_SLOW           300
#define DELAY_FAST           100
#define MAX_COUNT            1600
#define DECIMATE             1
#define OPERATION_DELAY_SLOW 50
#define OPERATION_DELAY_FAST 10
#define SOFT_LIMIT_MIN       0
#define SOFT_LIMIT_MAX       1600
#endif // CONF_1
```

In addition to the parameters from above, microstepping in the stepper driver is recommended for smoother operation. This firmware interfaces the A4988 driver, that supports the following microstepping options:

| MS1 | MS2 | MS3 | Microstep |
|-----|-----|-----|-----------|
| L   | L   | L   | Full step |
| H   | L   | L   | 1/2  step |
| L   | H   | L   | 1/4 step  |
| H   | H   | L   | 1/8 step  |
| H   | H   | H   | 1/16 step |
